---
title: 'ANNOUNCEMENT: Introducing CoolCat, the Interchain Gaming Hub'
author: [dk]
redirect_from:
  - 'blog/2022/08/30/coolcat-the-interchain-gaming-hub'
---

<Intro>Welcome, friends. We know you've been waiting on updates for a long time, so we are over the moon to be able to make this announcement.
</Intro>

Driven by a belief in interconnected, interoperable and seamless gaming experiences, the team at Digital Kitchen has been heads down for a longer period of time. And so today, we are proud to announce:

<BrandText>CoolCat, the Interchain Gaming Hub.</BrandText>

Evolved from being just a single blockchain-based game, CoolCat will offer a portal for users to choose from a wide variety of games, including but not limited to ‘play2earn’ titles. Users will also be encouraged to socialize with community members using the built-in social platform, which consists of a personal CoolCat profile, a news feed,  and a **privacy preserving, secure peer-to-peer messenger client**.

### <BrandText>PLAY. SOCIALIZE. EARN.</BrandText>
***

<BrandText>On launch users of the web app will be able to</BrandText>

- Delegate to a validator of their choice, yielding continuous rewards of **$CCAT**.
- Participate in governance, influencing the future course of CoolCat.

<BrandText>and a little later:</BrandText>

- Set up and edit unique personal profiles, in the form of modular on-chain NFTs.
- Create 'Clowders' - the CoolCat take on the multiplayer guild system, each with its own treasury, governance and branding so that users can play games and grow assets together with their friends.

<BrandText>The following functionality is planned for the future, once the downloadable desktop client, Catto, is ready for release</BrandText>

- Browse the store to:
    - Discover new titles and acquire licenses to download and play the games.
    - Mint profile customizations, such as body features or clothing for your personal CoolCat.
- Visit the market to:
    - Make trades for IBC tokens, game-specific currencies and assets, which may take the form of crafting materials or equipment in certain games.
    - Add funds to liquidity pools and earn externally incentivised currencies or items.
- Communicate with friends on an integrated, secured and private peer-to-peer messenger.
- Unlock and display game-specific achievements, incentivizing players to explore games to their fullest. Achievement hunters will find themselves rewarded in the form of in-game assets or profile customizations - with awards of $CCAT awaiting the most adventurous completionists, who take on the most difficult achievements.

***

<BrandText>A Note from Digital Kitchen</BrandText>

>We hope that's got you excited for the not too distant future, and, if you're still with us, we'd like to share some more details, get ahead of some questions and set out a roadmap for the weeks ahead. For those seeking detail about our vision, this is the place for you. Let's get started with some news about Digital Kitchen. In order to fund work on CoolCat, Digital Kitchen, the core development collective working on CoolCat, has recently launched a validator arm, debuting on the Juno Network. As it stands today, the validator is not in the active set and so does not generate any commission which directly negatively impacts CoolCat’s liquidity on launch.
>
>We want to state, ***expressly***, that the commission generated by this validator will be used exclusively to fund infrastructure upkeep as well as initial liquidity for CoolCat on launch and token buybacks post-launch.
>
>This means that non-delegators ***will not*** be disadvantaged individually by not delegating to Digital Kitchen. However, the upcoming CatDrop will be much more valuable if the validator can generate greater commission. We hope that our approach to this issue will highlight our transparent approach to important matters such as these, and reassure community members that at the core, our project is about community first.

***

### A Cool Overview
<BrandText>Let’s get to the cool stuff, shall we?</BrandText>

Gaming on CoolCat is built around the principle of decentralisation, with the primary goal being to support indie developers as well as large game studios from all over the world who want to launch games with a fast, reliable and cheap cryptocurrency implementation, an ever-growing community of excited gamers and developers and cross-game interoperability. Each game will have it's own smart contracts, implemented directly on the CoolCat governance-gated, permissioned CosmWasm-powered blockchain which then allows game developers to tap into the power of the blockchain using **Whiskr**, CoolCat’s **game engine plugin** which debuts on **Unreal Engine** and will then expand to major game engines in the future.

<Note>Whiskr will open developers a gateway for effective building of games utilizing cryptocurrencies, NFTs and a public ledger. Additionally game developers can airdrop their newly created currencies or NFTs to an engaged community, granting them access to an initial user base, effortlessly.</Note>

CoolCat will be an active home for a diverse variety of gaming communities all over the world, as well as a bustling hub, where game developers can meet, form teams and start building the next big thing, together.

If you are developing a game, and you are looking for additional team members, want to showcase your project, or just want feedback and support from like-minded peers across the globe, CoolCat is the place to be.

>The first usage of Whiskr will be seen with a game developed by Digital Kitchen which implements all features of Whiskr, showing off your personal CoolCat profile in beautiful 3D in a story-based game experience. Look out for further announcement of this in the future.

***

### Whitepaper and Details
Now you’ve heard about plans to bring together game developers worldwide, and we’ve discussed Digital Kitchen’s plan for the launch, so it’s time for the **whitepaper**. For those, not willing to read through the entire thing, here’s a quick overview of the most important numbers and policies in the hope of pricking your ears.

The first year of CoolCat will be the '**accumulation year**' for early adopters, with a token inflation rate of 100%, of which 10% goes directly into the community pool to allow the community to fund game developers interested in launching their game on CoolCat in order to lay the foundation for the future. To sum this year up, CoolCat will **launch with 10 billion tokens** of which 45% are airdropped to the community inside **AND OUTSIDE** the Cosmos ecosystem and finish the year with around 20 billion tokens.

During this time, Digital Kitchen will also launch **WØØL**, a chain-wide premium membership for players that want to get the most out of their CoolCat gaming experience, represented as a fully community-governable DAO granting access to **game-specific airdrops**, free trial of full games as well as beta tests for upcoming games. Wøøl will be using **$CCAT as the DAO’s token**. 

Once the accumulation year is complete, the first semi-annual inflation halving will occur, dropping the inflation to 50% with an inflation stop after the fourth year of CoolCat comes to an end. The maximum total supply CoolCat will have is about **31.5 billion** $CCAT.

Completing the first year will also kick off the first CoolCat 'season' with season-related items, such as decorations and cosmetics for your personal CoolCat profile, as well as game passes that unlock additional content.

***

>For Digital Kitchen, this post is a special one. Not only because we've finally been able to share this announcement with you, but also because it is going to kick off **a month of constant updates.** We're going to be sharing more and more information over the next few weeks and months on our social media channels as well as on this blog, hopefully getting all of you up to speed with everything we have planned, but in the meantime, we just want to say this - **THANK YOU!**
>
>Thank you for your unrelenting patience, your enthusiasm (we’ve been loving all your cat GIFs and stickers over the last few months), and your on-going support. Keep your eyes on CoolCat, as Digital Kitchen aims to ramp up the project massively in the coming weeks. We will see you all on the CoolCat network soon!

*For now, this is CoolCat, signing off.*

😺 [Join our Telegram group](https://t.me/coolcatcommunity)

😼 [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/CoolCatChain)

😻 [Become a member of our Discord](https://discord.gg/mnyvNG9ejf)